Today's session is going to
be about describing at a high
level what we have to offer in
three new Apple Java frameworks:
Java Spelling Framework,
Java Speech Synthesis Framework,
and Java Speech Recognition Framework.
These APIs are free and they
will be available this week,
surely by Friday.
They're in the pipeline.
We just need to put them on the web
from our Apple developers website
and you can download them and use
them with Java and your favorite IDE,
JBuilder that you got in the bag,
MetroWorks, ProjectBuilder,
what have you,
and have some fun with them.
We're not going to go into a lot of
detail about how Speech Synthesis
and Speech Recognition work or
about all their capabilities.
By that I mean the underlying
technologies built into OS X that
have been around for a while
in different versions of OS 9,
OS 8, etc.
But you can find more information
about those things on our
Apple Developers website.
And we're assuming that you
all are familiar with Java.
Now one thing we're going
to talk about is Java Beans.
One of the things we've designed
into these APIs is to allow them
to be used in visual builders.
The premier example is JBuilder.
And before we go on,
I just wanted to review
exactly what a Java Bean is.
So it's basically at a high level method
that was designed by Sun and its partners
to be able to share discrete data.
So Java Bean is a class that has
discrete components among third party
developers and tool vendors so that
each tool can interoperate and use
visually these discrete components.
So technically a Java Bean is basically a
class that has certain method signatures
or another class called a Bean Info that
is its pair that describes properties.
It can also generate events.
So for example,
the classic Bean would be a
button and you could get an
action event on that button,
for example.
So Java Bean is a class that has
certain method signatures or another
class called a Bean Info that is
its pair that describes properties.
It can also generate events.
So for example,
the classic Bean would be a
button and you could get an
action event on that button,
for example.
And the Java Bean specification
also defines methods to provide
editors and customizers.
That is, something richer than you'd get
by default in a visual builder,
such as just editing a string or
cranking up a number up and down,
switching true to false, etc.
And Java Beans, of course,
are part of the
Mac OS X J2SE implementation,
part of all J2 implementations.
So the first framework we'll discuss
is the Java Speech Framework.
The Java Speech Framework is basically
layered upon the Synthesis and
Recognition technologies built into OS X,
as I said before.
These are from Carbon.
They exist on Mac OS 9.1
and Carbon as well,
the native versions.
Of course,
we're running on OS X here today.
So what are some of the differences
between what we're talking about
today and the underlying technologies?
Well,
the Java Speech API are object-based,
whereas the Carbon API are C API,
native API.
The Java frameworks provide
programmatic as well as visual
programming for the frameworks.
The Carbon API are only programmatic.
Java Speech API are a higher level.
The, the Carbon C API provides very,
very low level,
every single possible thing
you'd ever want to do with
Speech Syntheis or Speech Recognition.
The Java Speech API are
only available on Mac OS X.
The native API are available
on Carbon 7.5 and beyond.
So, Speech Synthesis.
Basically,
it's about converting text to speech.
And we provide in our Java frameworks
about 99% coverage of the functionality
you'll find in the Carbon API.
It's architecturally neutral.
Now, what we mean by that is,
Speech synthesis provides
the ability to get callbacks.
Instead of just saying, speak this text,
you may want to know when it's
done speaking a particular word,
a sentence,
when it's done speaking a part of a word.
You can even stick other cues into
the string that it's speaking,
and we'll go into that more later,
and get callbacks from
the speech technology.
Now, those callbacks won't necessarily
happen on the UI thread of whatever
particular UI toolkit you're using,
Swing, NBT, IFC, Cocoa, etc.
So what we've done is we've put in
a thread task handler and a default
implementation for Swing to provide
that synchronization for you by default,
and an abstraction in the task handler
interface that allows you to add your
own synchronization between the speech
thread and the task handler interface.
callback thread, and the UI thread.
and we provide Java Beans and
customized property editors for
tight integration with the Java IDs.
So the main classes-- there are others,
but the main 2 classes of speech
synthesis are the synthesizer itself.
And it basically allows you to speak
the text and attach event listeners to
the different events that it generates.
The voice class which embodies all
the characteristics of a voice.
Now Mac OS X as Mac OS IX and
in previous Mac OSes have,
has built in voices,
about a half dozen different voices
of different characteristics.
One sounds like a robot,
one sounds like a young girl,
one sounds like an older man, et cetera,
et cetera.
All these voices have names.
And the voice class allows you to
pick one of these voices by name,
adjust its properties,
properties such as the rate
with which the voice speaks,
its pitch, its volume, et cetera.
We have three basic events we
generate from the speech synthesizer.
The first event is the word event.
You can listen for that event
whenever the synthesizer concludes
speaking a particular word.
You can also listen for the sync event.
The sync event is something that you
can embed a cue for in the text you're
asking the synthesizer to speak.
I'll demonstrate that later.
A phonem event, which is used to animate,
for example, the face.
Let's say you wanted a computer
generated face with a mouth to really
move with the sound of the word.
You would use these callbacks.
Again, you can find out detailed
information about that callback,
those events,
in the speech synthesis documentation for
Carbon on the Apple Developer website.
So, you also have other events.
Since you basically say,
here synthesizer, speak this text,
and then your thread continues on,
you're not going to be able to
listen for an exception right there
that may be generated down the road.
Say the synthesizer itself is a problem.
Say you embedded incorrectly some sync
event or some other embedded command,
and we'll go into
embedded commands later.
You can listen for error events.
You can also listen for exactly when
the synthesizer begins speaking,
when it finishes speaking,
whether that is someone stopped it,
some other API just called stop,
stop talking, or it concluded itself,
it read all the text,
and that would be the done event.
So let's do a speech synthesis demo.
And this demo is packaged
in the speech synthesis SDK.
Let's launch it here.
This is just a normal Java app
wrapped with MRJ App Builder.
And it's built,
this is all Java with a swing,
Aqua look and feel.
And it's built to not only show,
not only be a little fun,
but be educational.
Because I'm assuming that
Java programmers that want to do
speech synthesis don't necessarily know
all the capabilities of the synthesis
system underneath on Mac OS X.
So it's fun to play with.
We'll go through and we'll
just ask it to speak something.
We basically have a voice here, Agnes,
and we can see her age, 35,
about a female,
etc., the rate that she speaks,
the pitch, bass, and pitch modulation,
the volume that she speaks at.
And we'll just ask her to speak.
Isn't it nice to have a
computer that will talk to you?
And maybe we want her to
speak a little faster.
Isn't it nice to have a
computer that will talk to you?
So you can play around.
So we'll start with these
and see the different voices.
We'll go through what's
some more interesting ones.
And all of these strings, by the way,
are actually built into this system.
For the particular voices you choose,
they particularly exemplify the type
of voice that you have selected.
So let's look at one more.
Let's look at some really
alien sounding guys.
That looks like a peaceful planet.
So different voices.
It's pretty interesting.
And this, again,
is just the Java framework.
Now, another thing that you can do with
speech synthesis is embed commands.
So let's say, for example,
we have many commands that you can embed.
An embedded command basically is
just a bracketed keyword in the text.
That's how you send speech
synthesis embedded commands.
That's not part of the... That's not
part of the Java speech framework.
That is actually part of the underlying
speech synthesis technology on OS X.
And you can do many things.
You can change the emphasis of a
particular word if you really want to
hit it heavily as the computer speaks it.
You can change number mode, for example.
And this is interesting.
So let's go play with this for a minute.
Speech synthesis is pretty intelligent.
It tries to guess how it
should pronounce numbers.
But sometimes you need it to
pronounce it single digits.
Sometimes you need it to
pronounce it digit by digit.
Other times you need it to read
it as if it was a whole number,
say 502 instead of 502.
But let's type something in.
Let's say, "Please call me at 555-1234
at extension 1234." Or 5678.
5678.
Okay, so first we'll listen to the
computer speak this normally.
Please call me at 555-1234
at extension 1234.
at extension 5678.
So...
And there was a little bit
of an interesting hiccup
in the highlighting there.
But it pronounced the
first number correctly.
It recognized it as a phone number,
so it read it individually.
But an extension number,
you wouldn't normally tell
someone to call you at 5678.
You'd say extension 5678.
So we'll embed here the number command
to ask it to speak this literally.
And then once we're done at
the other end of the number,
so it returns to a normal number mode,
we'll insert the normal command again.
And we'll ask it to speak that again.
Please call me at 555-1234
at extension 5678.
So you can do things like that
so it's a little more intelligent
about what it's pronouncing.
Another thing that... You can do is,
among all these embedded commands,
is ask for a sync event,
as I mentioned a few slides earlier.
Let's say you're using Speech Synthesis
to do a presentation or something,
and after a certain
sentence or a certain word,
certain paragraph, you want to present a
graphic on the screen.
And then you want it to continue
on with what it's doing,
or you want to sync in some
other way a UI with the speech.
So let's say... Let's type
in a sentence such as,
"You can buy product A for $10,000."
is the Chief Executive Officer of
the Department of
Communication and Technology at
the University of Minnesota.
He is the Director of the Department of
Communication and Technology at
the University of Minnesota.
He is also the Director of
the Department of
Communication and Technology at
the University of Minnesota.
And then let's enter a sync command.
And the way you enter a sync command,
this is sort of legacy OS 7.5 or so,
OS 9-ish,
of how they had many four-letter keywords
for different technologies in OS.
So in this case,
since the roots of this are
still in Carbon and earlier OSes,
even though I'm on OS X now,
we basically need to add a four-letter
keyword to our sync event so
that when we get a callback,
we'll know exactly which callback
that was for for the sync event.
So first I'll embed this here.
And then, and by the way,
this is just a convenience,
this whole mechanism I'm
using to embed these commands.
This is just text.
So I can actually just
cut and paste here.
You can buy product for
$5 or product B for $10.
And so, again,
you could use that to animate
properly the shape of the
mouth of an animated head,
for example.
So that is speech synthesis.
That's about all the capabilities
that are in speech synthesis.
Of course, there are other features
For example,
there's the ability to animate
the mouth of an animated head.
And so, again,
you can use that to animate properly the
shape of the mouth of an animated head,
for example.
So that is speech synthesis.
That's about all the capabilities
that are in speech synthesis.
Of course, there are other features
For example,
there's the ability to animate
the mouth of an animated head.
There are variations
not shown in this demo.
For example, you can pause the speech.
You can choose to stop the
speech at a word break,
at a sentence break immediately,
and what have you, and same for pausing.
But let's continue on now.
to Java Speech Recognition.
And this is the nightmare demo,
because we've already tried it in here,
and I feared this before
I even got in this room,
and the acoustics,
even with none of you in here,
really plays havoc with this microphone.
But we'll give it a shot anyways.
But first let's just talk
about Java Speech Recognition.
So, Java Speech Recognition.
It recognizes spoken language
contained in a language model,
and we'll talk a little bit more
about a language model later.
But that could be something, for example,
like call a meeting or a phone home.
That's a simple language model in itself.
We provide about seventy percent
coverage for speech recognition when
compared to the Carbon Speech API.
Again, we're architecture neutral,
as I said before,
with speech synthesis so that you
can coordinate the recognition
callbacks with your UI callbacks,
as a convenience.
And again, we provide Java Beans and
Customized Property Editor for
tight integration with visual IDEs,
such as JBuilder or MetroWorks.
The two main classes for
Java Speech Recognition
are the Recognizer,
and the Recognizer does
about what you'd expect.
It allows you to start recognition,
stop recognition,
set a particular language model, listen,
add your listeners for events, etc.
The second important class
is the language model.
There are two different ways to do this.
There are two different ways to
use the language model class.
One is just, hey,
here's an array of different
sentences I want you to listen for.
Tell me when you get one of them,
and tell me which one you got,
which one you recognized.
Another one is more complex,
and it really is something
that if we have time,
I'm going to demonstrate a bit,
but it's still really an alpha stage for,
for a couple different reasons that'll
probably be clear when we give that demo.
The events that the Recognizer can use,
the Recognizer can
generate are unrecognized.
Hey, you know,
somebody said something but
I don't really know what they said.
I, it,
it didn't match up with anything in
my language model that you gave me.
And you would use that to do
something like ask the user
to speak that phrase again.
Another event that you can
listen for is the detected event.
That just means someone
has started to speak,
but the, but the Recognizer has not yet
completed recognizing what they said.
They are not done saying
what they're saying.
And the,
the other event is the done event.
This means that the Recognizer
actually recognized what they said,
and it can tell you
exactly what that was.
So, Language Model and Editor.
This is an example of a language model.
The top model, TopLM,
is the top language model and it
has two different possibilities.
Call Person or Schedule Meeting.
Now, Schedule Meeting is literal.
Listen for the word Schedule Meeting.
Call Person actually is a
concatenation of two other models.
The Call Model, third line down,
and the Person Model.
And the Call Model can be call, phone,
or dial.
The Person Model could be literally Arlo,
Brent, Matt, or my wife.
So, in this language model,
and then also you have in
the Top Language Model with
Person or View Today Schedule,
variations of the other two.
So, in this language model,
you could possibly receive Dial Brent,
which would be the first part
of the first language model.
Or Schedule Meeting,
or View Today Schedule,
or Schedule Meeting with Brent,
for example.
So,
let's go to the Speech Recognition demo.
Keep our fingers crossed.
And this is the
Speech Recognition mic here.
I'm going to start up Speech Recognizer.
Now this is a very simple demo.
It was actually something I used
to control my web browser,
but right now I just have it
as a simple list that's going
to pick up what I'm saying.
So let's wait for it to start.
Okay,
and if we can cut this mic for a second.
So in the acoustics of this room,
some of the softer sounds I found were
hard to pick up between this microphone
and the fans and all the computers
and the different space in the room.
But there we see the
speech recognition working.
And by the way,
we're going to go into sample
code and actually write some code,
take a look at some other code
after we're done with these demos.
Let me quit this here.
And can we have the main
presentation board back?
Thank you.
So the last framework that I want to take
a look at is the Java Spelling Framework.
The Java Spelling Framework is a set
of Java API that allows you to access
the underlying Cocoa Spelling Service,
and it's built on the
Cocoa Spelling Services,
which in turn are built
on top of Mac OS X.
It provides three levels of usage,
three styles or levels.
One is just a simple set of
API you can call to ask it,
is this particular
word spelled correctly,
give me a list of suggested corrections,
modify the system dictionary.
That is, I have a new word,
it should be in the dictionary,
it's spelled correctly, it just isn't,
add it to the dictionary and that would
be system-wide so that another Cocoa app
such as TextEdit would then pick up
that word in its spell checking session.
Another way to integrate is complete
integration with Swing text components.
Now, I don't know if you're aware,
but in Swing, all text components derive
from JTextComponent.
And JTextComponent has a classic
model view controller paradigm design,
and that makes it very easy for us to
tie in to all text widgets than in Swing,
whether it's a one line unstylized text,
a multi-line unstylized text,
or a fully stylized multi-line text.
It also has an attraction for integrating
with non-swing text components.
Now, its main classes are the
spelling checker itself,
and this just basically has the simple
static API that you would call if you
wanted to just roll all of this yourself.
Another important class is
the misspelled word class.
You'll receive that in callbacks
from the spelling panel,
which we'll go into later,
that will say what word was misspelled,
where it was in a group of text,
how long it is, etc., so that you can use
that to mark up your text,
etc.
If you're not using the
full-featured second mode of
operation we described earlier,
which is full integration
with Java text components.
The word class,
which is a parent class of misspelled,
it just indicates a
correctly spelled word.
So this is a snapshot of the
classic spelling session.
These are all Swing Aqua widgets.
And as we can see,
we have our classic spelling
panel on top of our demo,
and I'll show that in a second.
And through this panel,
you can receive a bunch
of different events.
But let's see how we bring that panel up.
So, in the case of the second usage,
just go to that session on a
standard Java text component.
It takes these two lines of code.
And your text component
has to be nothing special.
So you just instantiate the
JTextComponent driver and you ask it to
check the spelling of the text widget.
And you can still, if we go back,
you can still edit the underlying
text component if you wish.
And you can just close the spelling panel
and manage all of your dictionaries,
etc.
This spelling panel that's on
top now will appear as soon as
you call driver.checkspelling.
So another manner of checking the
spelling is with the inline popup
and real time spell checking.
In real time spell checking,
you will get cues for misspelled words,
which are red dashed underlines,
just as you would in
any Cocoa application.
And by control clicking
on the misspelled words,
you can get a list of
suggested corrections,
and you can add and delete things
from the system dictionary.
The Javaspelling Framework UI API,
which is to do with this window on top,
allows you to integrate the
spell checking panel with
some other text component.
There is, since Swing didn't come along
for a while in Java's life,
many different text widgets out there.
And so you can still use,
for the most part,
the Java Spelling Framework as
is with the spelling panel with
your own custom text widget as
long as you do a few things.
Now one is implementing
the JText component.
JText component driver,
a new implementation of driver.
JText component driver is the Swing,
default Swing implementation,
and you would need to,
it implements the interface below driver,
and you would need to implement your own
implementation of the driver interface.
And then, once you did so,
you would tie in with the spelling panel,
the class above,
and you would be able to have
this spelling panel tied in
with your text component.
Of course, you would have to handle the
highlighting and the misspelled word.
You would just get queues.
And the queues are the
same as the text component.
The other queues you would get are
events generated by the spelling panel.
One of the queues would
be an event called ignore.
The user wants to ignore the
currently suggested misspelled word.
Find next.
These just basically all apply to
the buttons in that spelling panel.
Correct.
The user wants to
correct the misspelling.
The correct event would have the
choice of the new correct spelling,
and it would be your job,
if you were implementing
this driver yourself,
to replace that text.
Another event is found,
and it would be your job to
highlight a misspelled word
when you receive that event.
So let's take a look at
the spell checking demo.
and we'll go through three
methods of doing this.
So the first one is the
standard spell checking session.
And as you can see,
we have a list of possible suggested
corrections to the misspelled word.
And it's picked the top one.
The top one is always the
most likely to be correct.
It's not always though,
and we'll see that.
So in this case, I will choose that word.
But for the third word,
I really want-- or the fourth word,
I really want one, not the first.
And I'll correct that then.
And this is just your
typical spelling session.
But the thing to remember
is that this is all Java.
These are all Java widgets.
This is all Swing accessing the
underlying Cocoa Spelling Service.
We'll correct that.
And since this particular integration is
that first two line call using full swing
integration with the spelling service,
when we have a word down below
that needs to be highlighted,
the text panel scrolled for us,
etc., we'll replace that word
and we'll replace the last word.
So that is the first manner with
which you can check spelling.
Now let's get back our
misspellings and start over.
The second manner is just
to simply check them all.
So it checks them all and again
puts a red underscore misspelling
cue under all the misspelled words.
And we can right click as we saw in the
presentation and select the correct word.
We'll just select a few here.
So you can do that as well.
Let's get back a fresh copy and
go to the real time spell checker.
And while that's coming up,
all of these calls are being made to
check the spelling when it eventually
has a word that it wants to find
out is this spelled correctly.
It's taken from the world of Java in this
particular process and it's sent via DO.
Now I don't know if you
know anything about DO,
but DO is part of,
is a distributed objects
mechanism in Cocoa.
So it's packaged up in Cocoa,
sent over the wire to another
process running on Mac OS X.
So if you go to the Mac OS X,
the spell server,
that spell server looks at the word,
finds it in the dictionary or doesn't,
and sends back a response whether
it's spelled correctly or not.
So all that happens pretty quickly.
And to give you an example,
let's turn on the real
time spell checker.
And let's just type garbage at first.
Let's just type blah, blah, blah, blah,
you know, who knows what this is.
But as you can see, as I type,
it is checking every single
correction I make to the document.
And all of that is just
happening extremely rapidly.
Now let's go back and let's
actually do something.
Look at our classic sentence again.
So since the real time
spell checker is still on,
we can delete,
make our correction manually.
We know that this for ISS, for example,
should be is.
But we can also then do as we
did for the check all option,
which is to ask it to give us a
list of suggested corrections.
And we can correct it in this manner.
So that is a demo of Java Spell Checking.
So where to get the code?
You'd go to Apple's
Java Developer website.
Sometime this week,
I'd look by Friday and
it'll definitely be there.
But while we're on the subject of code,
let's see how easy it is just to
roll some of these things our own.
And let's see a bit about what I was
talking about when I said Java Beans.
So let's launch JBuilder.
. And let's close this
nice little app again.
Let's get this guy up again.
Since the demigods don't like me,
I think I'll begin to save incrementally.
Okay.
Okay, let's save all.
Let's go back to the visual designer.
Let's add our Speech Syntheis Bean again.
Okay.
And let's set the layout of this.
This will be the world's
most horrible GUI.
to Null, meaning XY.
Let's go back to--
"Let's add a button to
start Speech Synthesis,
another one to stop it,
And let's add a swing scroll panel.
And inside of that,
let's add a text widget.
And let's put some default text in it.
[Transcript missing]
And save again.
And let's go and, you know,
we won't even bother
naming those buttons.
Let's go and ask the
synthesizer to begin speaking.
So let's say this.
I love this feature of JBuilder.
It's just totally awesome.
This is Code Insight.
So especially during these demos,
this is really great.
J synthesizer should be
down there somewhere.
Did it name it just synthesizer?
I think it did.
Okay.
Synthesizer1.
Text and we'll get that text from
this dot j text area one dot git
I can't get any easier than that.
Well, I could write it itself,
but then I'd be out of a job.
OK.
Don't add that feature, Blake, please.
So let's go back and add stop.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, let's run it.
Obviously this is about the simplest
form of using the synthesizer,
but you could also add callbacks to it,
but we'll just take a
look at those events.
So we can speak it.
This is neat.
Let's add a bunch of stuff
and hope that stop works,
because otherwise it's going
to repeat this over and over.
[Transcript missing]
I actually knew it would work,
but thank you.
So that is Speech Synthesis.
So while we're in this demo,
Let's add one more button
to the beauty of JBuilder.
And let's add our spell checking button,
our spell checking bean.
One more time.
This.jtext.complete.
"Let's try it again,
I love how fast it compiles.
And let's type something
more interesting in.
[Transcript missing]
That's right.
Let's bring up the spell checking panel,
that one line of text that we added.
And let's see if it has
a guest for me here.
Yes it does.
Okay, so we'll do that and
correct that spelling.
It doesn't have one for there,
so I'll just change it myself there.
It does have one for that.
For the heck of it,
let's just say ignore that one.
And let's also say that
for whatever reason,
we want that word to be
declared as spelled correctly.
So let's learn it.
and continue on.
And then just kill our session here.
And then we can just
continue on or whatever.
Now let's open up.
Let's quit that.
So there are two examples
of easily incorporating the
Speech Synthesis and Spell Checking
framework into your application.
If we look again,
we need to look at the top
of this application because
JBuilder did some things for us.
It instantiated the JTEX component
driver when we added it to
the application visually.
It also did the same thing for
the synthesizer class as well.
And then when we look
down at our code below,
it just took one line of code to ask
the synthesizer to speak the text,
another line of code
to ask it to stop it,
one line of code to ask
it to check the spelling.
And for checking the spelling,
they're also checking real
time and check all API as well.
So any way you slice it,
you have a couple lines of code that only
would work if you had a specific code.
So any way you slice it,
you have a couple lines of code
that only would work if you
had would work on Mac OS X,
but then again,
since there are only a couple of
lines of code and because of the
types of frameworks they are,
for example spell checking,
you might want to consider
integrating them into your
application--your Java applications
that you want to run on all platforms.
The way--there are several
ways you could do this,
but the benefit is that
it would basically run the
same on all the platforms.
It's just that when you got to
Mac OS X and your users ran it there,
they'd also have, for example,
spell checking.
So you might use,
since it's only a couple lines
of code for spell checking
reflection to call this,
you might also wrap it in another API,
build it on Mac OS X or build it
on a platform that has these same
APIs stubbed out so you could compile
and then run it on all of your systems
and simply when it ran on Mac OS X,
it would have the spell checking
capabilities built into it.
And same for basic speech synthesis,
although, you know,
that may be more involved in your
application when you do that.
So you might use--since it's
only a couple lines of code
for spell checking reflection,
you might also wrap it in another API,
build it on Mac OS X or build it
on a platform that has these same
APIs stubbed out so you could compile
and then run it on all of your systems,
and that's where you might
use speech synthesis.
So those are the first two
easy frameworks to demo.
Now the bleeding edge guy
is speech recognition.
So let's actually go and open up
a new file--open up a file that
was put on our system when we
installed the speech framework.
Okay, let's see here.
Do, do, do, do, where am I piloting here?
Close that.
Okay.
Developer.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, let's look at example one.
This is the sample code to the
speech recognition sample we saw.
And for the most part, what it's doing is
instantiating the recognizer.
[Transcript missing]
The feedback frame,
what recognizer it should attach to,
and it's gone and attached
to all the listeners,
especially the done event listener,
so that it can highlight
the correctly spelled,
or correctly spoken phrase.
Now,
The other thing that I wanted to
show you that is the real bleeding
edge stuff-- let me close this file.
Let's go back to the designer.
And let's go and just add a recognition
bean to this little sample application.
and take a look at the rough early
version of the language model customizer.
So the thing that actually makes
this rough is that drag and drop,
probably if you're
familiar with Java at all,
you know,
is still in a rough state of affairs.
Not only do we have
some bugs on our side,
but there are just some bugs in
the shared code that all of the
VM implementers share with Sun,
and I basically discovered those
specific bugs while doing this editor,
and we need to get those
changes fed back to Sun,
get them into the pipeline so
everyone can benefit from them.
But I will try to work,
struggle my way through this to give
you a bit of an example of how it works.
So I'm going to try to
recreate that first language
model we had on the slides,
where we had a call person, for example,
schedule a meeting with a person.
So let's say for, first of all,
that we just wanted to say,
"schedule meeting with
person." So we could say,
we could add a new
language model down here.
Oops, I need to add a new one first.
Called Person.
And we could say this is, let's see.
We could say that this is Dan.
Mickey and some of mine not in
the room and and then we could say
We could drag this person.
Now this is part of this feedback window.
It's one of the bugs of...
: Thank you, Steve.
I'm going to go ahead and show
you a little bit of the code
that I was referencing before.
So we could type up here, "call person."
And then I should be able to say,
call Dan or call Nikki.
Now, the actual--we had a bit of a
difficulty with setting up the mic,
so the development environment
for this sample is on this
machine I'm sitting on here,
and the mic actually is
attached to the other machine,
so I can't actually
show you this working,
but trust me, it works.
: I'm dragging it up,
it's only a problem.
But you can go into a test mode
and build your language model.
You could speak it, et cetera,
go back to edit mode
to edit other things.
Once you're done,
you can save it as a file somewhere.
And it'll bring up the
OS X save dialog box,
just save it somewhere, and say, okay,
you're done.
And then if we go back
and we look at the source,
JBuilder,
because JBuilder adheres to even the
nitty-gritty of the Bean specification,
it's gone and used the
Java Speech Recognition--Recognizer
Bean language model,
BeanInfo and Bean, to allow us,
our framework, to add source code to the
file that you're editing.
That's pretty neat.
In this case,
the source code we added was-- and
allow me to just add this to two
lines so you can see it better.
The source code that we
added was new language model,
set data file for the particular file
that now contains our language model.
And then we could listen
for those same phrases,
call Dan, call Nikki,
out of that complex language model.
Now more will be added to that so
that you can have easier ways to
recognize a more complex model,
but that's the state of the situation
with speech recognition at the moment.
So speech recognition is provided as
one of those frameworks made freely
available on our website as of this week.
The way that I would recommend you
use it for the time being is with
The simple language
model that we saw below,
which is just setting a
simple set of phrases,
listening for the recognition event,
the done event,
and then getting the sentence out of that
event to see what the user has spoken.
So that's a bit of code in taking a look
at how easy it is to use the frameworks.
Of course, there's a lot more in the
frameworks than we've shown today.
There are all sorts of interesting
things and callbacks and synthesis
and recognition that you can get at.
We've actually covered most of
the spelling framework as is.
So again, you can get the code from
the developer website.
And send me email if
you have any questions.